Great to see you back here.
And today we're going to look at the handy trick that will help your models become more robust.
Before we continue though I wanted to quickly recap on what we did last night and what we did is we
use the backward elimination method to construct a multiple linear regression using our data and through
that method we constructed four separate models you can see them on the in the background here so Model
1 to 3 and then 4.
And when we get to model 4 we were only left with one independent variable spend on research and development
because all of the other ones were eliminated.
And basically we completed the backward elimination process.
However we were left with kind of a feeling that maybe we should have excluded the last variable and
why is that.
Well first of all we saw that this P-value is not that much bigger than the significance level that
we selected we select a significant level of 0.05 the P-value 0.06 So just a bit greater than the threshold
.
And also when we looked at the charts or the plot of The Profit by marketing spend we could see that
even visually there is kind of a correlation here so if you just look at the red dots and ignore the
blue ones you can see that there is kind of like a leaner looking correlation here in that direction
.
So that kind of leaves us with a feeling maybe we shouldn't have excluded that variable.
The problem here is that this these methods this step was a regression methods.
They are very arbitrary.
So once you select your significance level threshold you've got to stick to that right.
You use the 0.05.
This one 0.06 so there's greater and we just gotta cut it off and not look not look back anymore and
just proceed with the method.
So how can we improve our method of building models to assess situations like that and give you like
an extra opinion or have another criteria to tell us whether or not we should have actually kept this
variable.
And there is a way and we're going to talk about it right now.
So let's look at the top part over here.
The top part is responsible for the variable so you have the coefficients and you've got the p values
and so on.
So we've talked about it quite quite extensively.
But let's look at the bottom part.
The second part of our report and here as we discussed before we've got the stats that are are for the
model as a whole.
So how well has been fitted how well it's working and so on.
So the stats that we'll be looking at today are are squared and adjusted R-squared.
And they will help us come up with a cool approach and great approach to improve our backward elimination
method.
So we already talked about both the R-squared and adjusted R-squared in the stats refresher section
of course.
However if you chose to skip that section because you're not interested in the formulas and so on then
I'll quickly recap for you now.
So R-squared here is basically a characteristic or a parameter of your model which tells you about the
goodness of fit.
So how will your model has been fitted and R squared can never be greater than one and you wanted to
be as close to one as possible the closer to 1 it is the better your model is deemed to be fitted.
However we also discussed this part in the refresher R-Squared is biased and it's biased in a way that
it is constructed and the way these models are run.
So the ordinary least squared method it doesn't allow R-squared to ever decrease so the more variables
you add to your model the greater R-squared will be.
So basically what we're what this means is that as long as you keep adding variables R-squared will
always grow and we can observe that here.
So if we start from the end where we have only one variable you can see that R-Squared is zero point
ninety four.
Then R-squared became while if you wish to go this way it's zero point ninety five point ninety five
or four.
There is zero point ninety five or seven and then it's zero point ninety 95 1 0.
So as you can see the more variables we have the greater R-squared gets and that's that's always going
to be the case just because of the way R-Squared is derived.
And moreover you can even include completely around a variable so if I throw into this model I throw
another variable which is basically the temperature outside like air temperature outside right now then
.
And I throw that in as an independent variable.
Of course it's not a predictor it can predict profit of a company that works in New York or California
.
But R-Squared is still going to grow and is going to imply that our model is now even better fitted
So that way our square is biased and that's where adjusted R-squared comes into play.
Adjusted R-squared is very similar to Our Square has got a very simple formula but it actually has a
penalization factor.
So basically just like R squared would grow if you add more variables that are square would also grow
but there is a penalization factor which makes it small which reduces adjusted R-squared as you add
more variables.
So there's kind of these two effects battling each other on one hand it's growing because of the way
it's constructed on the other hand the penalization factor is penalizing you or penalizing that just
in R-squared and reducing it every time you add a variable.
So basically if the variable that you added doesn't make adjusted or doesn't make R-squared grow that
much like for instance here you can see 0.9 5 0 4 2 0 9 5 0 7.
So it only grew by a fraction.
Very very small amount.
Well if that happens then the penalization factor is going to overwhelm this growth and therefore the
adjusted R-squared is actually going to decrease.
In that scenario and that way we can use.
And we will use the adjusted R-squared to watch the goodness of fit our models and how it changes.
So let's let's go ahead and do that.
Let's observe that just that R-squared in our method.
What was the adjusted R-squared.
Here it was Sir point nine 4 6 6.
Then when we excluded administration expenses adjusted R-squared went from zero point 9 4 6 6 to 0.9
4 7 5.
So as you can see here adjusted R-squared went up where it just basically what that means is that the
model is now better.
It's been it's fitted better.
It works these variables in this combination fit the profit variable fit this model to explain the profit
variable better than these variables in this combination to explain the profit variable which is good
.
It's a good step.
Okay.
So that means we improved Amahl here adjusted R-squared is 0.9 475.
Let's see what had happened to where we moved to the next step and the next step adjusted R-squared
.
Is there a point 9 4 8 3 so it went up again meaning that once again we improved our model so altogether
these variables are doing a better job explaining profit then these variables together are doing a job
explaining profit.
That's great.
We improved our model again.
And now let's see what happens where we take out the last variable marketing spend.
So we went from adjusted R-squared 0.9 4 8 3 to adjusted R-squared 0.9 for 5 4.
And what does that tell us.
Our risk adjusted R-squared went down and went down by from by zero point zero 03 approximately.
So that means that this model this new model is actually worse than this model so this model was better
fitted to predict or explain the variance in profit than this model is doing so.
So there you go.
So even though we excluded a variable according to our Bacary elimination method this may this variable
shouldn't have been excluded because it was Improve it was.
We're faced with this measure of variable.
This model is actually working better and that is your takeaway.
Handy trick how to observe your models and how to create them.
You don't only just follow the backwards elimination or whatever method that you are using and arbitrarily
follow the rules just instead follow the rules but also watch the adjusted R-squared and see if it's
actually improving.
So if it's growing then you're doing the right thing.
As soon as you see that our square drop then you have to stop and question.
I just do the right thing or not.
And you know what.
What is the tradeoff of excluding a certain variable or opposite of including this variable.
So I just had R-Squared is kind of your indicator how you're going along the way.
And that's it for today.
I just wanted to say that I just that R-Squared is not the only model parameter is because it is quite
a lot of them here and I've already mentioned that Cauchy criterion.
I take it criterion is is this one over here and it also works in a small way but it's got a different
calculation.
We won't go into detail but if you want to you can look things up a bit more and understand which one
suits which of these criterions or parameters works better in your case for instance or K-Q criterion
.
You're going to find is better when it's lower So here it's you can see it's big and become smaller
a smaller and then goes up again.
So they're KDK right here and also confirms that this model is doing a better job.
So if you like have a look at other criterions Schwartz criterion for instance and see how you can maybe
apply them as well.
But that's it for today.
Hope you find this useful and hope you can apply it you'll find ways to apply this in your actual work
.
I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then happy be analyzing